You can execute Python commands using the input field at the top of the debug window. You can show the debug window by pressing Control + D.

You can print to the debug window using the Python "print [msg]" statement. This is a good way of debugging your inline_script items.

All files from the file pool are saved along with your experiment if you save in the .opensesame.tar.gz format (which is the default format). This means that you don't have to keep track of lots of files if you want to move your experiment to another computer.

You can extend OpenSesame's functionality using plugins. A number of plugins are included in OpenSesame by default.

You can view the OpenSesame script for every item by clicking on the 'Edit script' button at the top-right of an item's tab.

You can get context sensitive help by clicking on the 'Help' icons at the top-right of every item's tab.

You can find documentation, tutorials and example experiments at http://www.cogsci.nl/opensesame.

You can freely download, use, redistribute and modify OpenSesame. We do appreciate it if you give us some credit, of course! See http://www.cogsci.nl/opensesame#citations.

The easiest way to add items to your experiment is by dragging items from the items toolbar to the overview of your experiment,

If you enable auto-response mode (Menu -> Run -> Enable auto response), OpenSesame will simulate responses. This way you can easily give your experiment a test run without having to press the keys yourself.

You can use the "Show if ..." option in sketchpad items to indicate when parts of the sketchpad (images, rectangles, etc.) should be shown. For example, if you want to show a leftwards arrow only if the variable 'cue' is 'left', you enter '[cue] = left' in the 'show if' input and draw the arrow.

You can use the "Run if ..." option in sequence items to indicate when an item should be run. For example, if you want to play a sound only when an error is made, you can append a sampler item and type '[correct] = 0' in the 'run if' input.

You can right-click on items in the sketchpad to select them, delete them, or edit them.

You can close all tabs except for currently active one using "Control + T"

You can apply script changes by pressing "Alt + A". Unapplied changes to a script are indicated by a red exclamation mark next to the apply button.

You can import complete Python scripts using the external_script plug-in. This way you can use your favorite editor for programming Python code and still use the code in OpenSesame.

You can prepare a table in your favorite spreadsheet and simply paste it into the table of a loop item.

Each version of OpenSesame has a codename that is two word alliteration, where the second word is the last name of a famous scientist. (This is a reference to Ubuntu Linux, which uses a similar naming scheme.)

You can select elements from the sketchpad using right-click to edit or delete them directly.

By default, OpenSesame automatically picks a name for a new item. However, if you enable the "Immediately rename" option (Options -> Immediately rename new items) you will be asked to give a new name to items the moment they are created.
